---
layout: post
title: Aha2 - Another Bright Idea
name: 2020-09-28-aha2

tags: [art, hardware, software]

images:
  - 2020-09-28-aha2_1.jpg
  - 2020-09-28-aha2_2.jpg
  - 2020-09-28-aha2_3.jpg
  - 2020-09-28-aha2_4.jpg
  - 2020-09-28-aha2_5.jpg
  - 2020-09-28-aha2_7.jpg
  - 2020-09-28-aha2_8.jpg

links:
  - GitHub Project : https://github.com/jsayles/lightpi
  - Adafruit LED Strip:  https://www.adafruit.com/product/306

see-also:
  - 2013-12-02-aha-chandelier

---

It has been 7 years since we built the [lightbulb chandalier](/2013/12/02/aha-chandelier/)
and a lot has changed in that time.  Most significantly we had a baby and I
wanted to repurpose the light to help us see him at night on the babycam (Axis 211).

For this build I repurposed an original Raspberry Pi A and an LPD8806 LED strip
from the old Office Nomads Beer Fund Indicator.  We also had a number of battery
powered led string lights that we used in our friends' wedding. To get the string
lights to work I needed to make a simple circuit using NPN transistors.  I
hooked up two strings to two GPIO pins making it so we have 32 RGB LEDs, and
2 LED strings. This gives us a nice array
of options for a nice dim light that doesn't disturb the baby's sleep.  

For power I used two apple 10 watt USB chargers, one for the pi, and one for the LEDs.
I liked these because they have the standard apple power plug and I could cut up
two long power cords and keep the mains voltage in a metal box and the USB voltage
in a nice plastic box.  

The pi is running a simple Flask api to turn on and off various LED sequences.  
The Axis camera has the ability to insert 4 actions which I hooked up to the api.
If I wanted a more complex interface I could just as easily host this on the pi
and embed the video stream from the webcam. I think I'd also like to add 2 more
stirng lights as they provide a nice quality of light compared to the RGB strip.
